# CIS 3370 - Intrusion, Detection, and Response
### Instructor: Gonzalo De La Torre Parra

## Overview 1
### Brief - Overview Questions - No Due Date - No Grade 

## Part 1

### Please use the space provided between the questions to answer them.

### 1. Perform a quick research study on the UVM health network cyber attack and answer the following:

- What was the affected/stolen asset?

- What was the potential threat for UVM?

- What vulnerability was exploited?

- How was the mechanism used for exploiting the vulnerability?

- What was the risk for UVM?

- How could UVM could have detected system anomalies?

- Summarize the incident in 1 paragraaph.

### 2. What is intrusion detection?

### 3. Briefly present a description of Host Based IDS, Netowrk Based IDS, and Hybrid Based IDS


### 4. What are the key differences between vulnerability-centric defense and threat-centric defense?

### 5. Describe the NSM cycle: collection, detection, and analysis (2 paragraphs)

### 6. What are the key differences between an analyst specialized in offensive tactics and one specialized in malware?

### 7. Mention one work generated by analysts specialed in programming (Search in scholar.google.com for IDS)?

### 8. Describe the approach you would use for replicating a cybersecurity incident and the methods you could use for capturing the data (Be specific in terms of the potential tools you could use and files/data you could collect)

### 9. Describe each one of the elements (1 paragraph each) of the applied collection framework (ACF) using a case scenario of an actual cyber security incident (Your choice)

### 10. What is a DMZ?  